connect: Add AWS PCA provider (#6795)
hashicorp/consul: website/source/docs/connect/ca/aws.html.md

---
layout: "docs"

> page_title: "Connect - Certificate Management"

Author: I guess so - I copied from Vault which sticks with this title. @kaitlincarter-hc do you think the title should change on these pages? That seems best to me but maybe there was a good reason to keep it the same on all of the provider pages?

sidebar_current: "docs-connect-ca-aws"
description: |-
  Consul can be used with AWS Certificate Manager Private CA to manage and sign certificates.
---

# AWS Certificate Manager Private CA as a Connect CA

Consul can be used with [AWS Certificate Manager (ACM) Private Certificate
Authority
(CA)](https://aws.amazon.com/certificate-manager/private-certificate-authority/)
to manage and sign certificates.

-> This page documents the specifics of the AWS ACM Private CA provider.
Please read the [certificate management overview](/docs/connect/ca.html)
page first to understand how Consul manages certificates with configurable
CA providers.

## Requirements

The ACM Private CA Provider needs to be authorized via IAM credentials to

> perform operations. Every Consul Server needs to be running in an environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
perform operations. Every Consul server needs to be running in an environment
```

where a suitable IAM configuration is present.

The [standard AWS SDK credential
locations](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-go/v1/developer-guide/configuring-sdk.html#specifying-credentials)

> are used which means that suitable credentials and region configuration need to be present in one of:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are used, which means that suitable credentials and region configuration need to be present in one of the following:
```

 1. Environment variables

>  2. Shared credentials file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 1. Shared credentials file
```
Update based on eng style guide

>  3. Via an EC2 instance role

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 1. Via an EC2 instance role
```

The IAM credential provided must have permission for the following actions:

 - CreateCertificateAuthority - assuming an existing CA is not specified in `existing_arn`
 - DescribeCertificateAuthority
 - GetCertificate
 - IssueCertificate

## Configuration

The ACM Private CA provider is enabled by setting the `ca_provider` to
`"aws-pca"`. At this time there is only one, optional configuration value.

```hcl
connect {
    enabled = true
    ca_provider = "aws-pca"
    ca_config {

>       existing_arn = "..."

Reviewer: Can this be a real example or is it too complicated?

Author: Didn't want to use a real one because it's long and contains potentially sensitive info like our AWS account ID. But I'll swap it for an example one from AWS docs and see how that looks:
`arn:aws:acm-pca:region:account:certificate-authority/12345678-1234-1234-123456789012`

    }
}
```

 ~> Note that suitable AWS IAM credentials are necessary for the provider to
 work, however these are not configured in the Consul config which is typically
 on disk and rely on the [standard AWS SDK configuration
 locations](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-go/v1/developer-guide/configuring-sdk.html#specifying-credentials).

> The set of configuration options is listed below. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The configuration options are listed below. Note, the
```

> first key is the value used in API calls while the second key (after the `/`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
first key is the value used in API calls and the second key (after the `/`)
```

> is used if configuring in an agent configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is used if you're adding configuring to the agent's configuration file.
```

Author: I copied this from the Vault page so we should maybe update that to match too?

  * `ExistingARN` / `existing_arn` (`string: <optional>`) - The Amazon Resource
    Name (ARN) of an existing private CA in your ACM account. If specified,
    Consul will attempt to use the existing CA to issue certificates. Currently

>     this **must be a root CA** in the primary datacenter although in the future

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    this **must be a root CA** in the primary datacenter.

>     we intend to support subordinate CAs. In a secondary datacenter, it must be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   In a secondary datacenter, it must be
```

    a subordinate CA who's root is the same as the root used in the primary

>     datacenter - if it's not Consul will create a new one from the Primary

Reviewer: The if/thens are a little hard to follow. Maybe break them into bullet points?

Author: Attempted to clean it up a bit. See what you think.

Author: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/120915/69143609-445af900-0ac1-11ea-9142-dcdfd8a73601.png)

    datacenter's root.

      The default behavior if this is not specified is for Consul to create a
      new Root CA in the primary datacenter and a subordinate CA in each
      secondary DC that it will automatically get signed by the primary's root.

## Limitations

ACM Private CA has several
[limits](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/acm-pca/latest/userguide/PcaLimits.html)
that restrict how fast certificates can be issued. This may impact how quickly
large clusters can rotate all issued certificates.

> At the current time the ACM Private CA provider for Connect has some additional

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, the ACM Private CA provider for Connect has some additional
```

limitations described below.

### Unable to Cross-sign Other CAs

> It's currently not possible to cross-sign other CA provider's root certificates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's not possible to cross-sign other CA provider's root certificates
```

during a migration. This is due to a ACM Private CA not having a mechanism to
blindly cross-sign another root certificate without a CSR being generated. Both

> Consul's built in CA and Vault can do this and the current workflow for managing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consul's built-in CA and Vault can do this and the current workflow for managing
```

CAs relies on it.

> In the future it should be possible to remove this limitation by changing the

Reviewer: I'm alway hesitant to talk about future functionality, unless it's not in-progress work, since the future could be 2 months or 2 years.

Author: That's fair. I'll remove those comments.

way Consul manages CA certificates significantly.

For now, the limitation means that once ACM Private CA is configured as the CA
provider, it is not possible to reconfigure a different CA provider, or rotate
the root CA key without potentially observing some transient connection

> failures. See the section on [Forced rotation without

Reviewer: ```suggestion
failures. See the section on [forced rotation without
```

cross-signing](/docs/connect/ca.html#forced-rotation-without-cross-signing) for
more details.

### Primary DC Must be a Root CA

Currently, if an existing ACM Private CA is used, the primary DC must use a Root
CA directly to issue certificates. We expect to remove this limitation in the

> future.

Reviewer: see note above about "future"

> ## Cost Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Cost Planning 
```

To help estimate costs, an example is provided below of the resources that would
be used.

~> This is intended to illustrate the behavior of the CA for cost planning
purposes. Please refer to the [pricing for ACM Private
CA](https://aws.amazon.com/certificate-manager/pricing/) for actual cost
information.

> Assume the following Consul datacenters exist and all will use ACM Private CA as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assume the following Consul datacenters exist and all agents will use ACM Private CA as
```

Author: It's really the datacenter rather than the agents that use ACM since CA provider is configured per DC. Does it read better as:

> Assume the following Consul datacenters exist and are configured to use ACM Private CA...
